+++
date = "2018-09-02T17:00:00-08:00"
title = "Tokyo"
slug = "tokyo"

+++

## Map

Add [my favorite places in Tokyo](https://goo.gl/maps/8rjGJ2C18oD2) and they'll
apear on the map below!

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden;">
  <iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed/v1/place?q=tokyo&key=AIzaSyDLYiOj_9ow-VnEoGuZ0_4wG7K0c4vuoQo" allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; border:0;"></iframe>
</div>

## General notes

Before we go into detail, some info I've found helpful during my travels, in no
particular order:

  * Cash is still king. Want to ride the metro? Cash only. Eat at a restaurant
    with a ticket kiosk? Cash only.
    * When I land I immediately find a 7-11 or Japan Post ATM, because they have
      the lowest fees and a reasonable exchange rate. Get 10x ¬•1000 notes.
    * Then, I load ¬•2000 on a Pasmo (get one if you don't have one). A
      surprising amount of vending machines (and other places) take Pasmo, so
      it's an efficient way to not deal with coins (the bane of my existence).
    * I'll add üí¥ to the title to denote cash only establishments
  * Smoking in restaurants and bars is still allowed (much to my chagrin).
    * I'll add üö¨ to the title to denote places where smoking is
      allowed
  * Make reservations at more popular restaurants.
  * Public transit infrastructure is really good, so you really don't need to
    use Uber or taxis unless the trains stop running (usually around midnight).

## Food

The food in Tokyo is second to none. I'm not a huge fan of fish, so my list is
going to leave out a lot of the fantastic sushi restaurants, and instead focus
on my holy trinity of Japanese cuisine:

  * Ramen
  * Gyoza
  * Tonkatsu

### Gogyo (Nishiazabu)

Immediately after clearing customs at Haneda (always fly into Haneda) and
following the above cash to Pasmo routine, I head directly to Gogyo for their
burnt miso ramen.

{{< instagram BVLWwU2hJUC >}}

It's right around ¬•1000 (depending on the optiomns), though if you want a 
highball to accompany it, that'll be another ¬•700. The service is fast and
there's an English menu (it's across the street from an American military base).

### Ippudo (Multiple locations)

Ippudo is a chain restaurant, so pick the closest one to you. Order the spicy
karaka ramen (a 3 is spicy enough), and an order of gyoza, which pairs amazingly
with the provided yuzukosh≈ç. Their iced tea is also fantastic, though I have no
idea what kind it is (I'll have to buy some and bring it back).

### Ramen Street (Tokyo station) üí¥

For a wide variety of ramen, head to the basement by the East Central exit of
Tokyo station and visit Ramen street. Lots of variety, each with varying line
lengths (some up to an hour!).

### Butagami (Roppongi)

Hidden in the basement (sensing a theme?) of Roppongi Hills is a favorite
tonkatsu restaurant. Go down the escalator from the Mori tower into the Roppongi
station, and turn right into a corridor at your two o'clock--if walk down a long
hall and end up at the fare gates you've gone too far.

They only serve tonkatsu: three grades and two cuts (fillet == *hire*,
loin == *rosu*). I recommend getting half and half of the premium grade so you
can try both.

It's not as good as the Rusutsu black pork we had
[at Chitose in Hakuba](https://goo.gl/maps/wtTbFzjtYQk), but it's still
excellent.

### Toraji (Nishiazabu) üö¨

If you're in the mood for yakiniku, I strongly recommend heading to Toraji for
their wagyu and super prime short rib. It'll be a little on the expensive side,
but I've managed to do a full meal (salad, meat, drinks) with coworkers for $75
per person. Reservations recommended on busier nights.

### Ten Ryu Gyoza (Ginza)

A Chinese restaurant on the north side of Ginza with the largest and juciest
potstickers you've ever encountered. Duck into the alcove, head to the back left
corner, and take the elevator up to 4F. There's usually a line, so be prepared
to wait for a seat.

## Drink

Japan has a pretty relaxed stance on public drinking, leading me to do things
like this:

{{< instagram Bko4sNCFVFd >}}

‰πæÊùØÔºÅ

### Bar High Five (Ginza) üö¨

The first bar I went to in Tokyo, after I got kicked out of TENDER down the
street because I wasn't dressed well enough (SF tech bro doesn't fly in Ginza).
Take the elevator down to the basement, and wait for a spot (unless you followed
my instructions and made reservations).

You'll get a hot towel and an amuse bouche, as well as some crackers or nuts.
Then, they'll ask you what you want in my favorite format: base spirit, any
flavors you like/dislike, and spirit forward or refreshing. Then they'll make
you something novel that meets those parameters, and trust me it's delicious.

If you sit at the bar you can also watch them hand carve ice into diamonds or
spheres for your drinks--ask one of the staff to show you their carving knife
and technique! They also seem to have a few rotating bartenders--every time I go
I see the same faces plus a new face or two.

### Campbeltoun Loch (Ginza) üí¥ üö¨

Right outside of the Hibya station (gate XXX), turn right at the above ground
train tracks and look on the right side of the street for a basement entrance
to one of the best selections of scotch in Tokyo. It's a tight fit (and it'll
only fit ~6 people), but it's definitely worth it.

Half pours are half the cost of a full pour (not so in many places), so it's a
great opportunity to try a few different things.

### B Bar (Roppongi) üö¨

When I was in Tokyo in December 2016 we saw a bunch of signs for 300ÂÜÜ highballs,
but the only part of the advertisement we could read was the name of this bar.
Being the thrifty crew that we were, we decided to give it a go.

Little did we know that this bar is actually attached to the Baccarat crystal
store in Roppongi, and doesn't serve anything close to a $3 highball. I ended up
getting a class of Hibiki 21 (at $25 a glass, it was the cheapest thing on the
menu) while my coworker bought the last shot of Louis XIII for the low price of
$200. That said, he was able to negotiate keeping the decanter it came in, which
will go for $400-500 online, so I feel like he came out ahead.

They have some interesting things, but I'd save it for a time you want to
impress your boss (and they're paying).

### Bar Caol Ila (Shibuya) üö¨

Caol Ila came at the recommendation of a fellow whisky fan I met in Campbeltoun
Loch in June 2018. She actually told me to go to a different bar ()
but apparently the AC was out so it was closed (summer in Tokyo requires AC).

As the name states, they've got a *lot* of Caol Ila, as well as some other peaty
scotches (Ardbeg, Hakushu), and some SMWS bottles. Definitely go if you like
peaty whisky.

### Koffee Mayama (Harajuku)

I admit that I don't drink coffee, but everyone in my life who does swears by
Koffee Mayama. Look for the black slat building with stepping stones and a
pebble garden. Even if you tell them you don't drink coffee and are here to buy
a bag for a friend, they'll pour you a sip of something delicious.

Bags are roughly $20, and they have ~20-25 different roasts (both their own and
guest roasters).

## Shopping

As you might have guessed based on the recommendations above, most of what I
shop for is alcohol related, though there will be a few exceptions.

### Liquors Hasegawa (Tokyo Station)

There are two locations in Tokyo Station, this is the bigger of the two (and
more importantly, the one that offers samples). Samples vary from ¬•100 to ¬•500,
so it's one of the best ways I know of to get rid of all that spare change.

This is also a great place to pick up a bottle of Elixir Vegetal (barrel proof
Chartreuse green) for about $20 (200ml).

### Shinanoya (Ginza, Shinjuku, Shibuya)

Shinanoya has a huge selection of scotch, mostly from independent bottlers. They
also have a reasonable amount of bourbon, though the prices are a little higher
than other places. Occasionally they'll have Japanese (I got Hibiki 17 for ~$100
in December 2016 and Yamazaki 2016 LE for about the same in 2017), but those
days it's mostly NAS and re-bottled scotch.

### Liquor Express (Ginza)

Just down the street from Shinanoya, Liquor Express has one of the best
selections of Japanese whisky I've seen. For a price. Bottles (when they're in
stock), go for a healthy premium (e.g. Nikka distillery components are ~3x the
distillery price). They've also got a reasonable selection of old bottles for
a good discount.

I recommend shopping for scotch of bourbon here though, as they have some
interesting bottles for a reasonable price.

### Liquor Mountain (Multiple locations)

A larger chain store than Shinanoya (and liquor only), they've got a pretty
big selection of scotch. Always worth ducking in for a look, though it's rare
you'll find something truly valuable. Some of them will do tastings as well, so
make sure you've got your coins.

### Tanakaya (Mejiro) üí¥

Head out of the main entrance of the Mejiro station and turn left, staying on
the left side of the street. Keep on the lookout for another basement stocked
full of scotch and cognac, as well as a shockingly good selection of French wine
and craft beer. No Japanese whisky though (they apologized profusely when I
asked).

Cash only makes it hard to buy an expensive bottle though...

### High-end department or electronics stores (Multiple locations)

Isetan, Matishiya, etc. occasionally select a bottle of Suntory or Kavalan and
sell it in their stores for a limited time. Department stores in Japan typically
have a food hall on the basement floor(s), so look head downstairs and check out
their selection if you're in the area. No need to go out of the way to seek
these out though.

Bic Camera, etc. also usually have some liquor on the first or second floor,
though it's usually not terribly interesting. When I was there in July 2018 they
still advertised Yamazaki 12 and Hakushu 12 for ¬•8800, but of course there's
none to be had.

### Don Quijote (Multiple locations)

Donki is a trip in and of itself--it's basically a vertially stacked Walmart,
complete with literally everything one might need at any hour, day or night
(they're usually open 24/7).

The top floor usually has luxury goods and is where they keep the good booze;
otherwise, look for a locked display case near the liquor or behind the register
on the same floor.

### Jack Road (Nakano)

Take the Chuo (rapid) north from Shinjuku one stop to Nakano, and walk up
Nakano broadway until you get to the main mall. From there you can head to 3F
for a lot of small watch shops with a impressive selections. Jack Road is the
biggest, but there are three or four other smaller shops with some interesting
pieces.

### Kapabashi Dori (Akasaka)

If you're into cooking, this street is the place to be. From tiny shops selling
plastic and wax food to two feuding knifemakers, you can get a ton of different
cooking accessories. There are also a lot of nice ceramics stores in the area.

## Other activities

### Baseball

I often jokingly say that Japan is "the last great America" in that they do
everything better than the US does: better whisky, better national pride, and
better baseball.

Japanese baseball games truly are something else. Seats start around ¬•2000, and
you can bring your own food and drink (!), so stop by a 7-11 or Lawson to pick
up snacks and a few cold ones. At the entrance they'll hand you a cup for you to
pour your booze into, so I'd recommend keeping one beer out; otherwise, they'll
give you a weird look when you ask for a cup), and bringing the other N-1 in a
backpack with a jacket stuffed on top. Rarely do they seem to check the whole
bag. If you finish all N, you can buy beer inside the stadium for ¬•500-700 from
teenage girls running around with keg backpacks wearing what can only be
described as a miniskirt made of coozie material.

Right after you enter the game, make sure you pick up a folded chant card. Every
home team player has their own chant card, and if you don't get one you'll be
lost for the entire game (who are we kidding, you'll be lost with it too, but
at least you'll have more of an idea of what you're supposed to be doing when).

Be prepared for other shenanigins too: one game the pitcher was driven to the
mound in a convertible, and every few innings ~50 or so cheerleaders will run
onto the field and start doing choreographed dances (Korean baseball is even
more intense in this regard).

As for the baseball itself, it's probably comparable to a AAA team in the
states, but that's not the point of going...
